In the late 1920’s,
Jehovah’s servants in Germany
produced a Bible-based presentation
that attracted huge crowds.
It was called the “Creation Drama.”
Some 10,000 people came to see it
at the Berlin Sports Palace.
But what exactly was the “Creation Drama”?
And what efforts were made
so that its message of hope
might reach as many as possible?
The “Creation Drama” was the successor
to a previous work
called the “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
Early in the 1900’s,
the Bible Students,
as Jehovah’s Witnesses were then known,
wanted to reach as many as possible
with the Bible’s message.
To attract people
and teach them Bible truths,
they combined recorded lectures
with visual aids
in the form of slides
and motion-picture film.
In 1914,
they began showing
the “Photo-Drama of Creation”
in city after city,
and it was seen by over nine million people
in just the first year after its release.
But by the 1920’s, after years of use,
some of the “Photo-Drama’s” glass slides
were broken.
The film was deteriorating,
and the equipment was wearing out.
The Bible Students still wanted
to reach large audiences.
So in many lands
they began broadcasting
Bible-based programs on the radio.
But in Central Europe,
governments restricted
this means of advertising the Kingdom hope.
The brothers in Germany realized
that a motion-picture presentation
similar to the “Photo-Drama”
would be the best way
for them to reach people.
Little did they know
how timely their efforts would be.
In 1927,
Brother Hans Decker
updated the “Photo-Drama” script
with information
from a new book entitled Creation,
even adopting the name “Creation Drama.”
Brother Wilhelm Schumann
hand painted many new slides
using pictures from recent publications.
New film was also added.
Erich Frost, a skilled musician,
composed music to accompany the program.
When it was released,
the “Creation Drama” was eight hours long
and designed to be presented
over several evenings.
At that time, Germany was suffering
severe economic depression,
and people needed hope
to deal with the difficult conditions.
And the new political party,
the National Socialist, or Nazi party,
was gaining strength
under the leadership of Adolf Hitler.
What efforts were made
so that the “Creation Drama’s” message
might reach as many as possible?
In 1928,
the brothers in Germany
began showing the “Creation Drama.”
In the five years after its release,
they showed it hundreds of times
to over a million people.
Hitler opposed
the preaching work of the Bible Students,
but Jehovah’s people
kept on preaching courageously.
Martin Poetzinger reported:
‘One evening in Weissenburg, Bavaria,
‘people were coming in droves
to see the drama,
‘but the police blocked their entry.
‘And even though hundreds went
to demonstrate in front of the town hall,
‘the police continued blocking them.
‘The next evening,
‘storm troopers showed up
looking to destroy the equipment.’
Jehovah’s Witnesses in Germany
continued showing the “Creation Drama”
until April 1933,
when the government started
imposing bans on their work.
In fact, in the last six months
that it was shown in Germany,
the brothers hosted 160 performances
with a total of nearly 300,000 attendees.
In 1931,
the brothers at the Central Europe branch
in Bern, Switzerland,
recognized the success
of the “Creation Drama”
and requested permission
to develop similar programs
for use in the rest of Europe.
Even after the preaching work
was banned in Germany,
the Witnesses continued
to show the “Creation Drama”
in such places as Switzerland, France,
the Netherlands, Austria,
Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.
As conditions changed across Europe,
the “Creation Drama” was updated
to include new developments.
For example,
when a brave family smuggled information
from Germany into Switzerland
about the persecution of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this news was added to the “Creation Drama.”
As the clergy aligned themselves
with Hitler’s Nazi party,
this fact was also included in the drama.
And when Jehovah’s Witnesses
were arrested for taking a neutral stand,
this too was added.
The brothers in Switzerland reported
the last known use of the “Creation Drama.”
In 1939,
there were 20 performances
with a total attendance of 19,000.
Months later,
the Second World War began.
Back in 1914,
just before the First World War,
the “Photo-Drama of Creation”
had acquainted millions
with the Bible’s message.
From 1928 to 1939,
as the Second World War approached,
the “Creation Drama” was shown
just in time to make an indelible impression
on the minds and hearts of those who saw it.
Many described it as unforgettable.
It did more than just inform people
of God’s promises;
it motivated many
to put faith in the Kingdom hope
in spite of the dark shadows of war.
The “Creation Drama” also encouraged
thousands of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Europe.
When they were persecuted and imprisoned,
they continued to teach others
about the Bible’s promises for the future.